18 OCTOBER           bii

De commissie van den Koning van Groot Brittanien, hier vooren vermeld,
luyd in de Engelse tale, gelyckerwysz als volgt.

Charles the second, by the grace off God King off England, Scottland,
France and Ireland, defender off the faith, to all, to whom these presents
shal comme, greeting. Whereas the gouvernour and Comp’ off our merchants
off London, trading. into the East India, have now resolved, to send there
schipp and servants tn repossesse, plant and fortitie the Island of Pularon,
being one off the Banda Islands in East India, wich of right belongeth to
them and their successors by the graunts and charters off our royall
predecessours and off our selfe made untho them; know yee there fore that
wee doe heerby constitute and appoinct the said gouvernour and Company
our commissioners; giving and grauntins unto them full power and authority
to thake, receive, possesse, plant, governe and fortifie the said Island of
Pularon to the proper use of them and their successours by such person or
 persons as they, the said gouvernour and Company, shal thinke fitt to depute
and commissionate there unto under their common seale. And wee doe
heerby streyghtly charge and command ail our loving subjects upon paine
of our highest displeasure to vyeild all conformitie and obedience to such
persons, as shall bee by them commissionated and authorised to the
ende a fore said. And wee doe alsoo desire all princes and estates of
our alliance together with theere ministers and officiers, whome it may
concerne, not to hinder or disturbe the agents and servands of our said
East India Company in there quiet and free reception, possession, plantation,
fortification and peaceable continuance in the injoyement of the said Island of
Pularon. In witnes where off wee have caused these our lettres to bee made
patents. wilnes our selve. At Westmunster the sixe and twentyeth daye off
January in the fowertheenth yeare of our raigne.

Pr ipm regem.
BARKER.
In dorso.
A commission concerning the Island of Pularon,
BARKER.
Under being annexed the Kings great seale in yellow waxe on doubled
parchement.

De commissie van de Engelse Oostindische Comp luyd, als volgt.

Where as his May', our Souveraigne lord, Charles the second off

Great Brittaine, France and Ireland, King, etc., hath beene gratiously pleased
under the great seale of Ingland, to give absolute power and authority to us,
the gouvernour and Company of all marchants off London, trading to the
East Indies, or to such as wee shal appoint to receive, possesse, plant and

En                                            Original from
Digitized by Google                         NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY
