2 AUGUSTUS.                           505

Wy senden Ul. heneffens dien, als een teeeken ende memorial onser
liefde, 2 stucken zout vleesch, 5 stokvissen, wat rys ende een can arak, ’t welk
vertrouwen buyten twyffel UL. in dank, als een werk onser goede affectie
(Vuwaerts) sult accepteren. Waermede verblyvende, naer wenschinge onser
aller heyl en salvation.

Onder stont: UL. vrinden,
(Was getekent): VINCENT VETTE,
ROBBERT RAWELINGS.
Ter zyden stont: Gedateert den 18"" Mey in ons logiement anno 1664.

To all manner of people unto whome theis lynes shall or may chance
to come to bee seene, read understood, bee it knowne that wee, whose
names are heere unto subseribed being subjeels unto his Royall Majestie of
greate Brittanie, Chales y second , servants to y" bonn Company of marchants
of London trading east India wee being by Gods blessing nowe arrived in ve
river of Dam in  uppon y" good ship y Royal oake in y" seruice of our
said masters hane with y gennrall consent of theis people of Dam undertooke
to protect them defend them tho v extent of our power against all manner
of people v shall oppose them they hauing freely voluntarily yeilded up
tis theyr countrey as thevr guist to our king of England from henceforth
for euer: where uppon wee haue with their assistant ereeted a small howse for
present to shelter from y weather; these our ffellow seruants being two in
number, namely m" Vincent Vettee mr Robbert Rawlings, with a Portugal
slaue to attend them  haue displayed on the top of mast or pole our
Englisch coulors or Mage which whome soluer shall attemp to alter or abuse
as being our ennimes wee shall take it as done in derision to our kings
Majestie sol use our best remidy against such offendors according to y"
lawes of England.

(Was getekent): HUMPHREY WESTON,
HENRY PEARLE,
VINCENT VETTE,
JOIN GRAUNT,
ROBBERT RAWLINGS.
Ter zyden stont: Dated  subseribed this 18' Dav Aprell anno Domm 1664.

Translationem.

Alle naties en volkeren, tot dewelke dese onse letteren ende covenant
ter handen zal comen, gelieven te weten, etc.

De meeste part der inhabitanten van ’tevlant Damme hebben haer
vrywilligh gestelt onder de proteetie van zvn May', Charles de Seeunde, Coning
van Groot Britllanjen, ende dat om groote ende seer rechtvaerdige motiven en
redenen, alsoo by de Duytse grootelyx van tyt tot Lvl in hare speecery gewassen

DAGH-REGISTER ANNO 1604,                                                       20

Oe                                  Original from
Diokized by (SOC gle                     UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN
